{\rtf1\ansi \deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\ftech Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Arial;}
{\f3\fmodern Courier;}{\f4\ftech Wingdings;}{\f5\ftech Monotype Sorts;}
}{\stylesheet{\f2\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1 \b\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s2 \b\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}
{\s3 \b\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}
{\s4 \b\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}
{\s20\sb300\tqr\tldot\tx8640 \b\f2 \sbasedon0\snext0 toc 1;}
{\s21\sb90\tqr\tldot\li400\tqr\tx8640 \f2\fs20\sbasedon0\snext0 toc 2;}
{\s22\sb90\tqr\tldot\li800\tx8640 \f2\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 toc 3;}
{\s23\sb90\tqr\tldot\li1200\tx8640 \f2\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 toc 4;}
{\s30\fi-200\li200\tqr\tx3960 \f2\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext0 index 1;}
{\s31\fi-200\li400\tqr\tx3960 \f2\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext0 index 2;}
{\s32\fi-200\li600\tqr\tx3960 \f2\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext0 index 3;}
{\s33\fi-200\li800\tqr\tx3960 \f2\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext0 index 4;}
{\s35\qc\sb240\sa120 \b\f2\fs26 \sbasedon0\snext30 index heading;}
}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;
}
\ftnbj\ftnrestart

#{\footnote Contents}
${\footnote Contents}
+{\footnote browse00001}
K{\footnote {K} Contents}
!{\footnote DisableButton("Up")}
\f2\fs20
\fs20
\fs20





\par\pard\qc{\fs36\b WordsWorth v2.1\line
The 'Ultimate' CrossWord Game}\par\pard
\par\qc{\fs28 by Graham Wheeler\line
(c) 1992--1998  All Rights Reserved}\par\pard

{\b\fs36 Contents}\par\par\pard


{\uldb Introduction}{\v topic0}\par\pard

{\uldb Game Overview}{\v topic4}\par\pard

{\uldb Playing the Game}{\v topic13}\par\pard

{\uldb The Game Buttons}{\v topic19}\par\pard

{\uldb Invalid Moves}{\v topic20}\par\pard

{\uldb Board Edit Mode}{\v topic21}\par\pard

{\uldb The File Menu}{\v topic22}\par\pard

{\uldb The Options Menu}{\v topic23}\par\pard

{\uldb The Tools Menu}{\v topic24}\par\pard

{\uldb Autoplay Level Options}{\v topic25}\par\pard

{\uldb Dictionary Consultations}{\v topic26}\par\pard

{\uldb Concept Keys}{\v topic35}\par\pard
\par\pard
\page
\page

${\footnote Introduction}
#{\footnote topic0}
+{\footnote browse00002}
K{\footnote {K} Introduction}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `Contents')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Introduction\par\pard}\par


{\uldb Welcome}{\v topic1}\par\pard

{\uldb Variations on a Scrabble Theme}{\v topic2}\par\pard

{\uldb WordsWorth Players}{\v topic3}\par\pard
\page
\page

${\footnote Game Overview}
#{\footnote topic4}
+{\footnote browse00006}
K{\footnote {K} Game Overview}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `Contents')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Game Overview\par\pard}\par

The rules of the game are quite straightforward. They are described
 in their loosest form here, as they vary somewhat depending on the
 configuration. The scoring method is explained in stages in the
 following sections.\par\pard

{\uldb The Objective}{\v topic5}\par\pard

{\uldb The Board}{\v topic6}\par\pard

{\uldb Hot Squares}{\v topic7}\par\pard

{\uldb The Tile Pool}{\v topic8}\par\pard

{\uldb Making a Move}{\v topic9}\par\pard

{\uldb Blank Tiles}{\v topic10}\par\pard

{\uldb The First Move}{\v topic11}\par\pard

{\uldb Subsequent Moves}{\v topic12}\par\pard
\page
\page

${\footnote Playing the Game}
#{\footnote topic13}
+{\footnote browse00015}
K{\footnote {K} Playing the Game}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `Contents')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Playing the Game\par\pard}\par

This section gives a brief overview of how to use WordsWorth,
 intended to get you up and playing as soon as possible.\par\pard

{\uldb Starting a Game}{\v topic14}\par\pard

{\uldb What you see on the Screen}{\v topic15}\par\pard

{\uldb Making WordsWorth Play First}{\v topic16}\par\pard

{\uldb Playing the First Move Yourself}{\v topic17}\par\pard

{\uldb Passing}{\v topic18}\par\pard
\page
\page

${\footnote The Game Buttons}
#{\footnote topic19}
+{\footnote browse00021}
K{\footnote {K} The Game Buttons}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `Contents')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 The Game Buttons\par\pard}\par

The full set of panel buttons and actions are:\par\pard
\fi0


\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab {\i Pass}, which tells WordsWorth that you want to pass this
 round. You will be given a chance to discard tiles; click on the
 'Done' button to complete the move.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab {\i Done}, which tells WordsWorth that you have finished your
 move. The move will be checked for validity, and if it is admissible,
 the next player will be given a chance to play. If there is a problem
 with the word, a description will be shown on the status line, and
 you will  have to try again.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab {\i Auto}, which tells WordsWorth to play the current move.

\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab {\i Next}, which tells WordsWorth to play the current move,
 or, if a 'Next' or 'Auto' has already been done, to undo the last
 move and play it differently (WordsWorth stores up to twenty possible
 moves which it chooses from. If you keep clicking on 'Next' it will
 eventually cycle back to the original move).
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab {\i Run}, which tells WordsWorth to make all moves for the
 current player. 
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab {\i Stop}, which tells WordsWorth to stop autoplaying moves
 for any players for which you have clicked on 'Run'.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab {\i Undo}, which undoes the last move. You can undo multiple
 moves all the way to the start of the game.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab {\i Redo}, which tells WordsWorth to redo the last undone
 move. You can redo multiple moves. Note that if you undo one or more
 moves, and then play a different move, you will not be able to redo
 the undone moves.\par\pard

If you specified at the start of the game that cheating was not allowed
 then the 'Auto', 'Next' and 'Undo' buttons will have no effect during
 that game.\par\pard
\page
\page

${\footnote Invalid Moves}
#{\footnote topic20}
+{\footnote browse00022}
K{\footnote {K} Invalid Moves}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `Contents')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Invalid Moves\par\pard}\par

If you enter an invalid move, WordsWorth will not accept it when
 you clock on 'Done'. Instead, an error message will appear in the
 status area. The possible errors are:\par\pard
\fi0


\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b 1st word must cross row <{\i n}>}  You are playing the first word on the board and you have to play
 it according to constraints which you have violated. These constraints
 are specified in the configuration.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b 1st word must cross col <{\i n}>}  You are playing the first word on the board and you have to play
 it according to constraints which you have violated. These constraints
 are specified in the configuration.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Word has no anchor square!}  The word does not attach to the existing word structure on the
 board. You must build on to what is already there (but see below).
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Word conflicts with board!}  You entered a word which contains a letter which conflicts with
 a letter already on the board.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b You don't have a blank!}  The word you entered requires that you have a blank tile, which
 you don't.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b You don't have a <{\i char}>}  
The word you entered requires that you have a <{\i char}>
tile, which you don't.

\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Bad Xword}  
The word you entered does not form all valid cross words.

\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Can't start there!}  The word you entered must have its first letter preceded by an
 empty square or the edge of the board, not another letter.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Can't end there!}  The word you entered must have its last letter followed by an
 empty square or the edge of the board, not another letter.\par\pard

If one of these errors occurs, you will simply have to play a
 different move. You will be given the option of overriding
 WordsWorth's dictionary lookups of the main word and any cross words,
 in case you wish to play a move that is not in the dictionary.\par\pard
\page
\page

${\footnote Board Edit Mode}
#{\footnote topic21}
+{\footnote browse00023}
K{\footnote {K} Board Edit Mode}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `Contents')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Board Edit Mode\par\pard}\par

WordsWorth is always in one of two 'modes': game mode, 
 or edit mode. Game mode (the default) is used for playing games, 
 while edit mode is used for creating new board types for games.\par\pard
The menu bar at the top is different for each mode, as is the panel
 on the right. In game mode, the panel contains the play buttons,
 the round and move number, the number of tiles left in the pool, and
 the player scores, while in edit mode the panel is empty.\par\pard
To enter edit mode, click on 'Board Layouts' in the Options menu 
 in game mode.\par\pard
You will then be presented with a dialog box which allows you to 
 specify which board you are editing, its size, and any constraints
 on the first move. When you have set the values appropriately and
 click on 'OK', the edit board will appear. You can then click on 
 any square on the board; a dialog box will appear which allows you to
 set the attributes for that board square.
 To return to game mode, select 'Save and Exit' or 'Exit without
 Saving' (whichever is appropriate) from the File menu.\par\pard
\page
\page

${\footnote The File Menu}
#{\footnote topic22}
+{\footnote browse00024}
K{\footnote {K} The File Menu}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `Contents')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 The File Menu\par\pard}\par

When in game mode, the File menu has the following options:\par\pard
\fi0


\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b New Game}   allows you to start a new game. If a game is
 already being played, you will be asked whether you want to discard
 it. You will then be presented with a dialog box which allows you to
 choose the game type, the number of players, and whether or not
 cheating is allowed (if you disallow cheating, several WordsWorth
 options will be disabled; this is intended for multi-player games
 where there are two or more human players participating).
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Load Game}   allows you to restore a saved game and
 continue playing.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Save Game}   allows you to save the current game being
 played to disk.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Print}   prints the current board to a printer.

\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Print Setup}   lets you control some printer options.

\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Print Preview}   lets you preview and print the current board 
 to a printer.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Quit}   exits WordsWorth.
\par\pard

\page
\page

${\footnote The Options Menu}
#{\footnote topic23}
+{\footnote browse00025}
K{\footnote {K} The Options Menu}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `Contents')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 The Options Menu\par\pard}\par

The Options menu allows you to design new game types, and change some options 
 that affect game play.\par\pard
In WordsWorth, a 'game type' consists of:\par\pard
\fi0


\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab a board type;

\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab a tile pool type;

\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab a set of rules.
\par\pard

Board types and tile pool types are defined separately, so that they
 can be reused (for example, we may wish to create several different 
 game types which all use the same board and pool types, and differ
 only in the rules).\par\pard
A board type has a name, a size (in rows and columns),
 a layout, and a set of restrictions on allowed opening
 moves.\par\pard
A tile pool type has a name, and the number and score of each of the
 27 different tiles.\par\pard
From the Options menu, you can create new game types, new board types,
 and new pool types. You can also editing existing games, boards and
 pools. In addition, you can change how tiles are displayed on the
 screen, how WordsWorth will choose automoves for each of the (up to)
 four players, change some settings affecting whether tiles are
 exposed or not, and so on. The options are:\par\pard
\fi0


\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Misc}   pops up a dialog box allowing
 you to set the default number of players (used to initialise
 the dialog that pops up when you select 'New Game'), and the path
 of the dictionary file. You can also enable or disable three options:\par\pard\tx360\tx800\li800

\par\par
\fi0


\tx1160\tx1600\li1600\fi-800
\tab{\b Hide racks between moves}   If this option is selected, then
 players will have to click on their racks to see the tiles. This is
 for when there are multiple human players, and ensures that when a
 player completes their move they don't get to see the next player's
 tiles (at least not without the other player knowing that they've
 seen them!).
\par\par\tx1160\tx1600\li1600\fi-800
\tab{\b Show auto-player racks}   If this option is enabled, you will be
 able to see the contents of the rack when a computer opponent is
 making a move.
\par\par\tx1160\tx1600\li1600\fi-800
\tab{\b Use different colours for players}   This option draws each
 players tiles in a different colour. It is automatically enabled in
 territorial play games.\par\pard\tx360\tx800\li800

Note that changes made to these settings take effect immediately.
 On the other hand, changes to the configuration of a game, board, or
 pool, will only have an effect from when the next game is started
 (so you can't change the layout of the board while a game is in
 progress).\par\pard\tx360\tx800\li800


\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Board}   lets you edit an exiting board type, or
 create a new board type. You will be presented with a dialog box
 which allows you to choose which board type you want to edit. 
 The dialog box also allows you to set or change the name of the
 board type, the size of the board, and the constraints on the first 
 move. \par\pard\tx360\tx800\li800

To create a new board type, you should click on the 'Board' pull-down
 list box and select the 'Create New' board type.\par\pard\tx360\tx800\li800

Once you have set the values in the dialog box to your satisfaction,
 click on the OK button. WordsWorth will switch into Edit mode.\par\pard\tx360\tx800\li800


\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Pool Size}   lets you create a new pool type, or edit
 the name and/or letter counts of existing pool types. A dialog box will
 appear which has 27 sliders for setting the tile counts. 
 You can choose which pool you want to edit from the list box at the
 top left of the dialog; select 'Create New' to create a new pool.\par\pard\tx360\tx800\li800

Note that you must click on 'Save Settings' for the results to be
 saved. Clicking on 'Exit' exits the dialog box but does not save any
 changes that have been made.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Letter Scores}   is almost the same as the Pool Size
 option, except it allows you to set the scores of the letter tiles,
 rather than the number of each tile.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Letter Weights}  

\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Level}   lets you change the settings WordsWorth uses to choose 
 automoves for each player.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Game}   allows you to create new game types or edit
 existing game types. Once again you can choose the game type to edit
 from a list box, and select 'Create New' to create a new game type.
 The options that you can set for a particular game type are:\par\pard\tx360\tx800\li800

\par\par
\fi0


\tx1160\tx1600\li1600\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab the name of the game;

\par\par\tx1160\tx1600\li1600\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab the name of the board type to use;

\par\par\tx1160\tx1600\li1600\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab the name of the pool type to use (may be unnecessary);

\par\par\tx1160\tx1600\li1600\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab how new words must be played - whether the game is
 crossword-like, territorial, or free-form;
\par\par\tx1160\tx1600\li1600\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab whether the player is playing from a rack, directly from the
 pool, or whether any letter can be played at any stage (in the last
 case you need not specify a pool type name above);
\par\par\tx1160\tx1600\li1600\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab the number of tiles in the rack; this is only relevant if
 playing from a tile rack;
\par\par\tx1160\tx1600\li1600\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab the number of tiles that must be played to get a score bonus,
 and the number of bonus points to award when that many tiles are
 played.
\par\par\tx1160\tx1600\li1600\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab whether the player can choose which tiles they draw after
 playing a word; if not selected tiles are drawn randomly from the
 pool. Again, this option only has an effect if tiles are to be played
 from a rack, as in the other two cases players do not draw tiles.
\par\pard

\page
\page

${\footnote The Tools Menu}
#{\footnote topic24}
+{\footnote browse00026}
K{\footnote {K} The Tools Menu}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `Contents')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 The Tools Menu\par\pard}\par

The Tools menu has the following commands:\par\pard
\fi0


\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Show Pool}   pops up a window showing the current set of
 tiles that are left in the tile pool.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Consult}   allows you to perform dictionary consultations.

\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Dump Dictionary}   allows you to dump the words in the current
 dictionary to a plain text file.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Build Dictionary}   allows you to convert a plain text file
 containing alphabetically sorted words, one per line, into the
 compressed format used by WordsWorth and XWord.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Interrupt Build}   allows you to interrupt a dictionary build;
 The build can be resumed later. The reason for allowing the build
 to be interrupted and resumed is that it can take several hours.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Resume Build}   allows you to resume an interrupted dictionary build.

\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Register}   allows you to register the program so that all
 features and dictionaries can be used.\par\pard

\page
\page

${\footnote Autoplay Level Options}
#{\footnote topic25}
+{\footnote browse00027}
K{\footnote {K} Autoplay Level Options}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `Contents')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Autoplay Level Options\par\pard}\par

You can set the autoplay levels for each player from the 'Level' item
 in the 'Edit' menu. A dialog box will appear with a number of
 options:\par\pard
\fi0


\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Player}   Use this listbox to select which player's settings you
 wish to change;
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Use adaptive strategy}   If you select this option, the player's
 strategy will change depending on how well it is doing with respect to
 the other players. 
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Avoid opening up hot squares}   If you select this option, the
 autoplayer will avoid making moves which make it easy for the next 
 player to score double/triple/etc word scores. This does tend to make
 the playing style more cramped, but this can be compensated for by
 increasing the weighting on word length.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Use letter weights}   If this option is selected, then the
 letter weights will be used as well as the score in choosing a move
 (if it is not selected, letter weights are only used when an 
 autoplayer passes a move and discards tiles).
 This can be used, for example, to make an autoplayer tend to play
 some letters as soon as possible (such as a Q, for example), while
 tending to hold on to other letters (such as blanks and S's). The
 rationale is both to do with penalties for unplayed tiles at the
 end of the game, and the idea that blanks and S's can often be best
 used in high-scoring plays (where the score will compensate for the
 weight).\par\pard\tx360\tx800\li800

If this all sounds like greek to you, don't worry - XWord by
 default comes with useable weight settings. You can turn this option
 on if you like, just to see the effect, but it isn't too important
 except for those interested in experimenting with different
 strategies.\par\pard\tx360\tx800\li800

Note that this option is sometimes (but not always) used in Adaptive
 Play.\par\pard\tx360\tx800\li800


\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Minimum allowed score}   This lets you set a lower limit on
 the acceptable score for an autoplayer's moves. Be warned that if
 you set this too high the player will tend to pass more often than
 play a word.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Maximum allowed score}   This lets you set a ceiling on the
 score that an autoplayer can get with a move. It gives human players
 an unfair advantage, but if you're not a great player you may 
 appreciate being able to do this.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Minimum score to play blank}   This option is similar to the
 letter weights in intent. It is used to cause an autoplayer to
 hold back on using a blank tile until it can use it in a high-scoring
 play.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Minimum allowed length}   This option lets you specify the
 minimum allowed length of autoplayer moves.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Maximum allowed length}   This option lets you specify the
 maximum allowed length of autoplayer moves.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Word length weight}   This option lets you specify how
 much importance an autoplayer will attach to the length of the
 word it plays. Essentially this is used to modify the score by
 an amount equal to the product of the value you sepcify and the
 length of the word. For example, if you set this to two, and 
 WordsWorth finds a two-letter move with score 10, and a five-letter
 word with score 6, it will choose the five letter word as it
 considers it to have a score of 6+2*5=16 while the other word
 it considers to score 10+2*2=14.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Maximum new cross words}   WordsWorth has an infuriating
 habit of playing several adjacent words in the same direction,
 forming lots of two letter and then three letter cross words
 (it can do this as it has so many two and three letter words
 in its dictionary). This can make it quite hard for a human 
 player at times. This option lets you limit the number of cross
 words that it can make per move. Setting this to one or two 
 makes the autoplayer play a more 'open' game. I find this a
 very useful option.\par\pard\tx360\tx800\li800


\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Dictionary filter factor}   This is a real technical one
 to explain. Suffice it to say that it allows you to force WordsWorth
 to only look at some of the words in the dictionary. The higher
 you set it, the less words it will check. The actual choice of
 words is random, but will tend to favour shorter words. While
 not quite accurate, you can think of the value as being the
 percentage of words that are skipped.\par\pard\tx360\tx800\li800

Generally I don't advise the use of this option, unless you are
 playing a free-form game. In that case XWord can take a long
 time to play as there are so many possible moves. Setting the 
 dictionary filter  factor can be used to cause significant 
 speed ups (but of course the autoplayer will not play that well).
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Anchor filter factor}   This is another option to speed up
 play, at the cost of weakening the autoplayer. When used moderately,
 it is less drastic than the dictionary filter factor.\par\pard\tx360\tx800\li800

The concept of an anchor square was described earlier. The anchor
 filter factor is the percentage of anchors that should not be
 considered for play. Again, in free-form play this can cause
 significant speedups. Setting it to ninety should result in a
 ten times speedup; setting it to ninety-five should cause a 
 twenty times speedup, and so on (put another way, setting it
 to ninety-five means only five percent, or one-twentieth, of the
 anchor squares will be considered).\par\pard\tx360\tx800\li800

I don't recommend setting this to much higher than fifty, except 
 in the case of free-form play.\par\pard

Setting any of the sliders to zero causes that option to have no
 effect.\par\pard
After changing the settings for a player, click on 'Save Player'.
 When you have finished making all your changes, click on 'Exit'.
 Note that clicking on 'Exit' does not itself result in any changes
 being saved; you must click on 'Save Settings' for that.\par\pard
\page
\page

${\footnote Dictionary Consultations}
#{\footnote topic26}
+{\footnote browse00028}
K{\footnote {K} Dictionary Consultations}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `Contents')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Dictionary Consultations\par\pard}\par

The dialog box for dictionary consultations lets you generate lists 
 of anagrams and words, given a set of letters. The set of letters you
 specify can include blank tiles, as well as things like 'any vowel'
 or 'any non-vowel'.\par\pard
The method used is fairly complex but worth understanding if you
 want to make full use of it. Underlying each consultation are two
 pieces of information:\par\pard
\fi0


\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab a word template which specifies which letters are allowed in
 which positions in matching words;
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab a letter pool, which specifies which letters are available
 for use in unconstrained entries in the word template.\par\pard


{\uldb Some Examples}{\v topic27}\par\pard

{\uldb Consultation Match Types}{\v topic28}\par\pard

{\uldb Specifying Consultation Patterns}{\v topic29}\par\pard

{\uldb Special Pattern Characters}{\v topic30}\par\pard

{\uldb Letter Ranges}{\v topic31}\par\pard

{\uldb Consultation Processing}{\v topic32}\par\pard

{\uldb A Tip for Multi-Word Anagrams}{\v topic33}\par\pard

{\uldb Word Length and Count Constraints}{\v topic34}\par\pard
\page
\page

${\footnote Concept Keys}
#{\footnote topic35}
+{\footnote browse00037}
K{\footnote {K} Concept Keys}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `Contents')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Concept Keys\par\pard}\par


A new feature in version 2.0 is the use of 'concept keys'. In WordsWorth
 you can only use these when doing dictionary consultations; in XWord you can
 also associate concept keys with words in the crossword grid.\par\pard
Concept keys are essentially semantic categorisations of words, somewhat
 like a thesaurus. The file containing the keys is named "thes.dat" for
 this reason. This file contains semantic associations between nearly
 25,000 words. When you specify a concept key, the dictionary will be
 constrained to match only those words with possible semantic associations 
 to the key. These semantic associations can be quite loose, as they are
 based on transitive relations. That is, a word A is considered to be 
 potentially related to a concept key C if there is a word B such that 
 A and B are related in meaning, and so are B and C. Furthermore, the way
 that concept key restrictions are implemented in WordsWorth/XWord is not
 infallible - extra words can be admitted that are not actually related,
 although the actual number of erroneous matches should be a very small
 percentage. This fallibility is a tradeoff; the algorithm used sacrifices
 complete accuracy for speed. Concept key restrictions have a very low 
 impact on the performance of dictionary consultations (although somewhat
 more of an impact in XWord grids).\par\pard
You can specify more than one key, separated by commas. Keys must be
 single words. If more than one key is listed, the intersection is used,
 but you can change this to a union by starting the list with "+". If
 there are no words satisfying the concept key(s), they are ignored. 
 This is enforced more strongly in the XWord grid, where the word lengths
 are also used; i.e. if you specify concept keys for a six letter word
 in the grid, and there are no six letter words matching the keys, then
 the keys are ignored.\par\pard
To illustrate the use of concept keys, here is an example. Say you have
 a six-letter word for which the clue is "A swamp". You know that the
 second letter is "O". Then, either by entering it on the grid via the
 word settings dialog, or in dictionary consultations, you can specify
 the pattern ":O::::" and the concept key "swamp" to restrict the search.
 This will result in the following matches:\par\pard
{\f3\fs20       BOLDLY\par
      FOXILY\par
      MORASS\par
      NORMAL\par
      TOPPLE\par
}\pard
\line
If, on the other hand, you had specified the concept key "bog", then
 the following words would be matched:\par\pard
{\f3\fs20       COARSE\par
      COBWEB\par
      HOOKER\par
      HOOPLA\par
      LOTTED\par
      MODERN\par
      MOLDER\par
      MORASS\par
      MOTHER\par
      ROTTEN\par
      SOILED\par
      TOILET\par
}\pard
\line
The combination of the two ("swamp,bog") 
 gives the best results, namely the intersection of these
 two lists which is the single (correct) word "MORASS".\par\pard


\page
\page

${\footnote Welcome}
#{\footnote topic1}
+{\footnote browse00003}
K{\footnote {K} Welcome}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic0')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Welcome\par\pard}\par

Welcome to WordsWorth!\par\pard
WordsWorth was inspired by an article in Communications of the ACM in
 May 1988, entitled 'The World's Fastest Scrabble Program'.  I had
 always been a frustrated Scrabble player. I take ages to move,
 generally play pretty badly anyway, and dislike waiting for my
 opponent. As a result, I decided to write my own program, which would
 have both infinite patience and lightning response time {\f3 ;-)}. \par\pard
It soon became clear that the principles involved were not bound by
 the rules of Scrabble as such, but more by the concept of crosswords.
 Imposing rules simply implied restricting the set of possible moves.
 The idea of a general-purpose crossword game playing engine was born!\par\pard
Please send your comments, bug reports, flames, and anything else to
 me at {\f3 gram@oms.co.za}.  I have tried to make WordsWorth
 as generic and general as possible; if you have suggestions,
 particularly about further generalisation, let me know! I am also
 interested in hearing about erroneous words or omissions in the
 dictionary.\par\pard
If you have word lists in other languages that you would like made
 into WordsWorth dictionaries, send them to me and I will do it for
 you (e-mail only please). The dictionary builder runs only under
 UNIX, takes many hours to run, and requires about 16Mb of RAM, so it
 is not distributed with WordsWorth.\par\pard
Prior to v2.x, WordsWorth was MS-DOS-based. WordsWorth v2.0 was the
 first version to run under both MS-Windows and UNIX. MS-DOS is no longer
 supported. The dual platform nature of WordsWorth v2.x has been made
 possible through the use of wxWindows, a cross-platform C++
 application framework.\par\pard
A few features of the MS-DOS version are not available in v2.x. These
 are:\par\pard
\fi0


\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab the hint facility is no longer present. The same effect can be
 achieved with a combination of 'auto', 'next', and 'undo'.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab the ability to exclude words from the dictionary has been 
 removed. The dictionary now has far fewer bad words than in versions 
 earlier than v1.3, and the performance penalty of using an exclusion
 dictionary is no longer worth paying. If WordsWorth plays an invalid
 word, use the 'next' button to force it to play a different
 move.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab blank tile exchanges are no longer supported.
\par\pard

Some new features were added:\par\pard
\fi0


\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab the program is now almost entirely mouse driven. Only in
 crossword solving mode is keyboard input necessary.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab WordsWorth now supports from one to four players; previous
 versions were fixed at two.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab more level control options have been introduced.

\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab you can now view the contents of the tile pool at any stage.

\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab all of the configureable options can now be set from within
 the program.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab a new option allows you to explicitly choose which tiles you
 want to draw at the end of a move (computer players still use random
 drawing only).\par\pard

DISCLAIMER - This software is distributed without a warranty of 
 any sort. You use this software at entirely your own risk. I will
 not be responsible for any loss, damage, injury, death, disaster,
 plagues, famine, divorces, disagreements, etc that may result from
 the use of this software.\par\pard
\page

${\footnote Variations on a Scrabble Theme}
#{\footnote topic2}
+{\footnote browse00004}
K{\footnote {K} Variations on a Scrabble Theme}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic0')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Variations on a Scrabble Theme\par\pard}\par

WordsWorth allows you to design your own crossword games.  You can
 create any size and shape board up to a 21{\f3 x}21 square, and
 pepper it with black crossword squares that can't be played upon.
 You can make any square a single, double, triple, quadruple, etc
 letter or word score type. You can play free-form on the board, or be
 forced to build on to the existing structure (as in Scrabble). You
 can play a territorial game in which you have to build on to your own
 structure. You can specify what letters are available, how much they
 are worth, and give them a strategic 'weight'. You can save and
 restore games, and undo and redo all the moves.  If you like
 Scrabble, you can use WordsWorth as a Scrabble opponent (although the
 dictionary is not exactly the same as the OSW).\par\pard
\page

${\footnote WordsWorth Players}
#{\footnote topic3}
+{\footnote browse00005}
K{\footnote {K} WordsWorth Players}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic0')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 WordsWorth Players\par\pard}\par

WordsWorth supports from one to four human or computer players, and
 provides several options for assisting in multi-player human games.
 You can control the level and style of your computer opponent(s).  A
 future version of WordsWorth will allow multi-player games over the
 Internet.\par\pard
\page

${\footnote The Objective}
#{\footnote topic5}
+{\footnote browse00007}
K{\footnote {K} The Objective}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic4')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 The Objective\par\pard}\par

The basic aim is to make words in a crossword-like fashion from a
 set of letter tiles which you draw out of a common pool. You 
 alternate plays with the program, and when the pool is exhausted 
 and one player has no more tiles, or both players are stuck, the
 game ends. You score according to the word you make, as well as 
 other new words that may result from your play. For example, if
 the board contains:\par\pard
{\f3\fs20     DOG\par
}\pard
\line
and you play the word {\f3 STOP} thus:\par\pard
{\f3\fs20     DOGS\par
       T\par
       O\par
       P\par
}\pard
\line
you get score for both {\f3 DOGS} and {\f3 STOP}. On the other hand, you 
{\i must} make valid words with your play, so\par\pard
{\f3\fs20         S\par
    DOGST\par
        O\par
        P\par
}\pard
\line
is not a valid way to play the word {\f3 STOP}, as {\f3 DOGST} is invalid.\par\pard
Hyphenated words and proper nouns (capitalised words) are not
 allowed. The rules of Scrabble now admit the American '-ize' as well
 as the English '-ise' spelling of words, and WordsWorth follows this
 policy.\par\pard
At the end of the game, the scores are compared to see who wins.
 The scores are calculated according to the location of the word
 (that is, what special squares did it cover), and the letters
 played, each different letter having a different score value.
 If either or both players still hold unplayed tiles, the score 
 of those tiles is deducted to reach a final score.\par\pard
Usually, you must build on to the existing words on the board
 (the exception being the first move, of course). WordsWorth
 offers some flexibility in these matters, however.\par\pard
\page

${\footnote The Board}
#{\footnote topic6}
+{\footnote browse00008}
K{\footnote {K} The Board}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic4')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 The Board\par\pard}\par

Play takes place on a board which can be any size that will fit
 within a 21{\f1\'B4}21 square area. If you want a rectangular board you
 specify the dimensions; if you want some other shape board you 
 specify the size of a rectangle that can contain it, and use
 black squares to create the shape you desire.\par\pard
\page

${\footnote Hot Squares}
#{\footnote topic7}
+{\footnote browse00009}
K{\footnote {K} Hot Squares}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic4')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Hot Squares\par\pard}\par

Apart from black squares, the scoring of plays is affected by the
 type of the squares on which the play takes place. Thus, a square 
 may be a 'double letter square', 'triple letter square',
 and so on, and similarly for 'double word', etc. We will call such
 squares 'hot squares'. If your move
 results in one or more hot squares being covered,
 you take this into account when working out the score for the move.
 Hot squares that affect letter scores are taken into account before those
 that affect the whole word.\par\pard
Thus, if you play a two-letter word in which one letter has score
 1, and the other score 4, and the first letter is played on a
 double word square while the second is played on a triple letter
 square, then the score for that word is 2{\f1\'B4}(3{\f1\'B4}4+1) = 26. Note
 that this is just for that word; the score for that move will
 usually involve score for one or more other 'cross words' as well. Once
 a hot square is covered with a tile, its type ceases to have
 any effect on scores; thus, only when you actually place a tile on
 a hot square does it have an effect on the score (once again,
 WordsWorth allows this to be changed).\par\pard
\page

${\footnote The Tile Pool}
#{\footnote topic8}
+{\footnote browse00010}
K{\footnote {K} The Tile Pool}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic4')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 The Tile Pool\par\pard}\par

Each player draws tiles out of a common pool. Usually this is 
 fixed in size, and each player draws a fixed number of tiles
 randomly from the pool at the start of each game, replenishing
 their tile rack at the end of each move. In Scrabble, for example,
 each player holds seven tiles at a time.\par\pard
WordsWorth also allows you to play any tile from the pool without
 drawing a small set of tiles each move. The pool can also be
 unlimited, allowing you to play any letter you like at
 any time, until all players get stuck anyway.\par\pard
\page

${\footnote Making a Move}
#{\footnote topic9}
+{\footnote browse00011}
K{\footnote {K} Making a Move}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic4')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Making a Move\par\pard}\par

The basic idea behind making moves was described earlier. There 
 are also some other types of moves. For example, if you cannot
 make a good word, you can pass your turn. If you do so, you have
 the option of returning any or all of your current tiles to the
 pool, and drawing replacements (assuming you are drawing tiles,
 and not playing freely from the pool as described in the previous 
 section).\par\pard
\page

${\footnote Blank Tiles}
#{\footnote topic10}
+{\footnote browse00012}
K{\footnote {K} Blank Tiles}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic4')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Blank Tiles\par\pard}\par

There is a special tile that plays a similar role to a joker in
 cards. This tile is blank, and can be used to represent any
 character. If you have such a tile and play it, you must state
 what character it is representing. When such a tile is on the
 board the letter it represents is shown in red; other tiles are 
 displayed using black text.
 If you are passing your turn and wish to discard a blank (a rare
 event!), you must enter it as an underscore '{\f3 _}', as it does
 not represent any particular character (other than itself) when
 being discarded. \par\pard
\page

${\footnote The First Move}
#{\footnote topic11}
+{\footnote browse00013}
K{\footnote {K} The First Move}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic4')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 The First Move\par\pard}\par

The first move may optionally have some constraints placed on how it
 should be played. For example, it could be specified that the word
 must be played in the third row, or that it must cross the center
 square, or that it may be played anywhere at all. When using a square
 board, these constraints would usually stipulate that the first word
 may be played in either direction and must pass through the center
 square on the board (assuming the board has an odd-numbered size).
 Alternative constrainst are most useful when a board is being used
 which is not square, or which has some unorthodox layout built using
 black squares.\par\pard
\page

${\footnote Subsequent Moves}
#{\footnote topic12}
+{\footnote browse00014}
K{\footnote {K} Subsequent Moves}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic4')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Subsequent Moves\par\pard}\par

Usually each move other than the first move must build on to the
 existing words like a crossword. Other possibilities are territorial
 play (where each player builds on their own words), and free-form
 play, in which play may occur anywhere. In the former case,
 attachment to the opponents words is allowed, but every play must
 include a word with a previously- placed letter that was placed by
 the same player.\par\pard
A more precise description, useful in understanding some of
 WordsWorth's level-control options, is that every word played must
 include at least one 'anchor square'. Exactly what constitutes an
 anchor square depends on the type of play. For normal, Scrabble-like
 play, any square which contains a played tile is an anchor square.
 For territorial play, any square that contains a tile played by the
 current player is an anchor square. For freeform play, all board
 squares are anchor squares.\par\pard
\page

${\footnote Starting a Game}
#{\footnote topic14}
+{\footnote browse00016}
K{\footnote {K} Starting a Game}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic13')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Starting a Game\par\pard}\par

To start playing a game, you must select 'New Game' from the 'File'
 menu. A dialog box will pop up, asking you to choose the type of
 game, the number of players, and whether cheating is allowed. When
 you are happy with the selections, you should click on the 'OK'
 button.\par\pard
The board will then be drawn, with the first player's tile rack being
 shown below. The tiles may have their faces exposed, or may all
 appear blank; the latter is intended to ensure privacy when there 
 are multiple human players; clicking on any the tiles will expose
 them to view.\par\pard
\page

${\footnote What you see on the Screen}
#{\footnote topic15}
+{\footnote browse00017}
K{\footnote {K} What you see on the Screen}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic13')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 What you see on the Screen\par\pard}\par

To the right of the board is a panel containing several buttons. For
 now, we will concern ourselves with only three of these: 'Pass',
 'Done', and 'Run'.\par\pard
At the botton of the WordsWorth window is a status line. At this
 stage it should display a message saying either 'Player 1 get ready'
 (if the tiles are hidden), or 'Player 1 make your move' (if they
 are exposed).\par\pard
\page

${\footnote Making WordsWorth Play First}
#{\footnote topic16}
+{\footnote browse00018}
K{\footnote {K} Making WordsWorth Play First}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic13')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Making WordsWorth Play First\par\pard}\par

If you want the role of player 1 to be adopted by the
 program, you should click on the 'Run' button. WordsWorth will
 make the first move, and all subsequent moves for the first player.
 On the other hand, if you click on the 'Auto' button, WordsWorth
 will autoplay a single move.\par\pard
\page

${\footnote Playing the First Move Yourself}
#{\footnote topic17}
+{\footnote browse00019}
K{\footnote {K} Playing the First Move Yourself}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic13')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Playing the First Move Yourself\par\pard}\par

To play the move yourself, you need to click on each tile in the
 rack that you want to play, followed by the location on the board
 where you want it to be played. As you click on a rack tile, it
 will turn red to show that it is selected; when you click on the 
 board location it will turn grey, and a copy (also grey) will be
 placed on the board. You can also select a tile from the rack by
 pressing the corresponding key.\par\pard
If you click on the wrong location on the board, just click on the
 right one, and the letter will be moved. To undo a letter placement,
 click on the grey letter on the board (if you are playing from 
 a rack, as opposed to playing from the tile pool or an unlimited
 pool, you can also click on the grey letter in the rack to undo;
 in the other cases clicking on the rack letter will instead select
 a second copy of the tile to play).
 With a little bit of experimentation you'll quickly get the hang
 of it.\par\pard
Once you have placed all the tiles, you should click on the 'Done'
 button to tell WordsWorth the move is done. The move will be checked,
 and if acceptable the next player will be prompted to move. If there
 is a problem an error message will appear on the status line and you
 will have to try again.\par\pard
If the word that you play (or a new cross word) is not in the
 dictionary, you will be given the option of overriding the 
 dictionary and forcing WordsWorth to accept the move.\par\pard
\page

${\footnote Passing}
#{\footnote topic18}
+{\footnote browse00020}
K{\footnote {K} Passing}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic13')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Passing\par\pard}\par

If you want to pass instead of playing a word, click on the 'Pass'
 button. A message will appear on the status line asking you to select
 what tiles you wish to discard. Click on the tiles, and then on
 'Done'.\par\pard
If you want to save your game you can do so by selecting 'Save Game'
 from the File menu; use 'Load Game' to restore a saved game.\par\pard
\page

${\footnote Some Examples}
#{\footnote topic27}
+{\footnote browse00029}
K{\footnote {K} Some Examples}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic26')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Some Examples\par\pard}\par

A few examples can be used to illustrate the idea:\par\pard
\fi0


\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab for the literal word ROPE the word template is "ROPE" and the
 letter pool is empty;
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab for anagrams of ROPE the word template is unconstrained (we
 will write this as "####") and the
 letter pool consists of the letters R, O, P and E;
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab for anagrams of ROPE that begin with R and have P in the third
 place the word template is "R#P#" and the letter pool is "O,E".
\par\pard

Given a word template and letter pool, WordsWorth tries to find
 matches by plugging different letters from the letter pool in
 to '#' positions in the word template.\par\pard
\page

${\footnote Consultation Match Types}
#{\footnote topic28}
+{\footnote browse00030}
K{\footnote {K} Consultation Match Types}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic26')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Consultation Match Types\par\pard}\par

In the consult dialog, the first choice you have is the type of 
 match to use. There are four possibilities:\par\pard
\fi0


\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Use all letters}   Matches must match the whole word template;

\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Match prefixes}   Matches may match any leading subsection of the word
 template;
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Match suffixes}   Matches may match any trailing subsection of the word
 template;
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Multi-word anagrams}   This is a special case. The whole word
 template must be matched but the match may consist of multiple words.\par\pard

The first and last case should be clear; the prefix and suffix
 matches can be illustrated by continuing with our last example.
 That is, we have word template "R#P#" and letter pool "O,E".
 Using prefix matching, WordsWorth would find words
 that match any of the following situations:\par\pard
{\f3\fs20       Word Template        Letter Pool\par
      ================================\par
             R                 OE\par
             R#                OE\par
             R#P               OE\par
             R#P#              OE\par
}\pard
\line
Using suffix matching, WordsWorth would instead use:\par\pard
{\f3\fs20       Word Template        Letter Pool\par
      ================================\par
             #                 OE\par
             P#                OE\par
             #P#               OE\par
             R#P#              OE\par
}\pard
\line
Thus in the first case, WordsWorth will see if any of the following
 are valid words:\par\pard
{\f3\fs20       R    RO   RE   ROP   REP   ROPE   REPO\par
}\pard
\line
In the suffix case, WordsWorth will check the following:\par\pard
{\f3\fs20       O    E    PO   PE    OPE   EPO    ROPE    REPO\par
}\pard
\line
Note that in the case that the word template is unconstrained (that
 is, all 's), then prefix and suffix matching are identical, both
 having the meaning "words consisting of one or more letters from...".
 Reread the last sentence if you didn't understand it.\par\pard
\page

${\footnote Specifying Consultation Patterns}
#{\footnote topic29}
+{\footnote browse00031}
K{\footnote {K} Specifying Consultation Patterns}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic26')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Specifying Consultation Patterns\par\pard}\par

When making consultations, you don't explicitly specify the
 word template and letter pool. Rather, you specify a single pattern.
 In the simplest case a pattern is a sequence of letters (whitespace
 may be present but is ignored). The letters may be either upper case
 or lower case, the former meaning that the letter must occur in that
 position (i.e. is a word template constraint), while lower case means
 the letter need not be in that position (i.e. it is in the letter
 pool). Thus our example above would be specified as "RoPe" (or
 equivalently as "RePo"). A few more examples should help here:\par\pard
{\f3\fs20       Pattern          Word Template    Letter Pool\par
      =============================================\par
      informatION      ########ION      informat\par
      MISinformed      MIS########      informed\par
      TreateD          T#####D          reate\par
}\pard
\line
The first two are typical examples of patterns that would be used
 for suffix and prefix matching, respectively. \par\pard
\page

${\footnote Special Pattern Characters}
#{\footnote topic30}
+{\footnote browse00032}
K{\footnote {K} Special Pattern Characters}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic26')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Special Pattern Characters\par\pard}\par

Patterns can also have some special characters. Each has an 'upper
 case' and a 'lower case' form, analagous to letters. The special
 characters are:\par\pard
{\f3\fs20       Meaning   Upper Case   Lower Case\par
      =================================\par
      Any letter      :         .\par
      Any vowel       *         +\par
      Any consonant   =         -\par
}\pard
\line
\page

${\footnote Letter Ranges}
#{\footnote topic31}
+{\footnote browse00033}
K{\footnote {K} Letter Ranges}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic26')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Letter Ranges\par\pard}\par

Patterns can also have 'letter ranges' enclosed in square brackets,
 such as '[A-Z]' (any letter), '[AEIOU]' (any one vowel) or '[A-MZ]' (any 
 one of A through M, or Z). To specify the opposite of a range, start
 the range with an exclamation mark or caret. For example, [!AEIOU] matches 
 any non-vowel. The letter case of the first letter in the range
 determines whether the range will be used as a word template
 constraint or as a letter pool entry; other than this letter case is
 ignored. Thus, for example, "[a-Z]" is legitimate and equivalent to
 "[a-z]". Similarly "[A-z]" is equivalent to "[A-Z]".
 You cannot use the other special characters within a
 range (thus for example, "[*y] is not valid).\par\pard
\page

${\footnote Consultation Processing}
#{\footnote topic32}
+{\footnote browse00034}
K{\footnote {K} Consultation Processing}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic26')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Consultation Processing\par\pard}\par

WordsWorth does dictionary consultations in the background, to
 give you the opportunity to interrupt, or to continue playing a
 game while a consultation is in process. You can interrupt a
 consultation by starting a new one, or by clicking on the 'Stop'
 button in the panel. The matches WordsWorth has found up to that 
 point will then be displayed.\par\pard
Depending on the consultation pattern, even a background
 consultation can slow the game up considerably. A percentage 
 progress indicator is displayed on the status bar to give
 you an idea of how far the consultation is. \par\pard
You can also perform a consulation in the foreground; in this
 case the program will block until the dictionary matching
 process is complete.\par\pard
\page

${\footnote A Tip for Multi-Word Anagrams}
#{\footnote topic33}
+{\footnote browse00035}
K{\footnote {K} A Tip for Multi-Word Anagrams}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic26')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 A Tip for Multi-Word Anagrams\par\pard}\par

Quite often there will be thousands of possible anagrams and it
 becomes impossible to search out the good ones. There is a
 technique to help in this case - look through some of the possibilities,
 and select a word you think is appropriate in the final anagram.
 Then subtract this word from the input, and see what words
 can be made from the remaining letters. For example, consider
 VEGETARIAN. We see that some anagrams have the word RAVE, and 
 decide to use this. This means we must find anagrams of the remaining
 letters, namely GETIAN. We find the word EATING. Thus 
 VEGETARIAN=EATING RAVE.\par\pard
\page

${\footnote Word Length and Count Constraints}
#{\footnote topic34}
+{\footnote browse00036}
K{\footnote {K} Word Length and Count Constraints}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winww.hlp', `topic26')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Word Length and Count Constraints\par\pard}\par

You can specify minimum and maximum word lengths for prefix,
 suffix and multi-word anagram matches. For the latter you can also
 specify the minimum and maximum number of words allowed per match.
 If these are set to zero (the default) they will have no effect.
 They can be useful when generating multi-word anagrams with patterns
 that contain several A's or I's, as WordsWorth will likely 
 churn out thousands of matches in these cases starting with the words 'A',
 'AA', and/or 'I'. Setting the minimum length to three (for example)
 can help prevent this.\par\pard

\page
\page

\page
}
