{\rtf1\ansi \deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\ftech Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Arial;}
{\f3\fmodern Courier;}{\f4\ftech Wingdings;}{\f5\ftech Monotype Sorts;}
}{\stylesheet{\f2\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1 \b\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s2 \b\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}
{\s3 \b\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}
{\s4 \b\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}
{\s20\sb300\tqr\tldot\tx8640 \b\f2 \sbasedon0\snext0 toc 1;}
{\s21\sb90\tqr\tldot\li400\tqr\tx8640 \f2\fs20\sbasedon0\snext0 toc 2;}
{\s22\sb90\tqr\tldot\li800\tx8640 \f2\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 toc 3;}
{\s23\sb90\tqr\tldot\li1200\tx8640 \f2\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 toc 4;}
{\s30\fi-200\li200\tqr\tx3960 \f2\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext0 index 1;}
{\s31\fi-200\li400\tqr\tx3960 \f2\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext0 index 2;}
{\s32\fi-200\li600\tqr\tx3960 \f2\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext0 index 3;}
{\s33\fi-200\li800\tqr\tx3960 \f2\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext0 index 4;}
{\s35\qc\sb240\sa120 \b\f2\fs26 \sbasedon0\snext30 index heading;}
}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;
}
\ftnbj\ftnrestart

#{\footnote Contents}
${\footnote Contents}
+{\footnote browse00001}
K{\footnote {K} Contents}
!{\footnote DisableButton("Up")}
\f2\fs20
\fs20
\fs20





\par\pard\qc{\fs36\b XXWord v2.1\line
The Crossword Solver's Apprentice}\par\pard
\par\qc{\fs28 by Graham Wheeler\line
(c) 1994--1998  All Rights Reserved}\par\pard

{\b\fs36 Contents}\par\par\pard


{\uldb Welcome}{\v topic0}\par\pard

{\uldb Setting up a Crossword Grid}{\v topic1}\par\pard

{\uldb Giving XWord Additional Clue Information}{\v topic2}\par\pard

{\uldb Using the Mouse to define the Grid}{\v topic3}\par\pard

{\uldb Solving the Crossword}{\v topic4}\par\pard

{\uldb The Menus}{\v topic5}\par\pard

{\uldb Dictionary Consultations}{\v topic11}\par\pard

{\uldb Concept Keys}{\v topic20}\par\pard

{\uldb Crossword Save File Format}{\v topic21}\par\pard
\par\pard
\page
\page

${\footnote Welcome}
#{\footnote topic0}
+{\footnote browse00002}
K{\footnote {K} Welcome}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winxw.hlp', `Contents')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Welcome\par\pard}\par

Welcome to XWord!\par\pard
XWord is a crossword solver's helper. It uses some efficient
 dictionary searching algorithms for computing the set of possible 
 solutions to a partially complete crossword. It can then show you 
 which possible letters can be placed in each square, and which 
 possible words can go through each square. The idea is that you use 
 XWord as you solve the crossword, entering letters as you determine
 them, and using the feedback provided by XWord as additional clues.
 XWord can also sometimes surprise you by completing a half to
 two-thirds finished crossword correctly (although this depends on
 giving XWord some additional information).\par\pard
XWord is distributed as part of WordsWorth. As such, it uses the
 same dictionary as WordsWorth, which does not contain proper nouns.
 This restricts its usefulness somewhat, but the problem may be
 addresses soon (Pentiums help!).\par\pard
DISCLAIMER - This software is distributed without a warranty of 
 any sort. You use this software at entirely your own risk. I will
 not be responsible for any loss, damage, injury, death, disaster,
 plagues, famine, divorces, disagreements, etc that may result from
 the use of this software.\par\pard
\page
\page

${\footnote Setting up a Crossword Grid}
#{\footnote topic1}
+{\footnote browse00003}
K{\footnote {K} Setting up a Crossword Grid}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winxw.hlp', `Contents')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Setting up a Crossword Grid\par\pard}\par

XWord is quite a powerful tool with a number of features. The
 best way to learn how to use it is to get a crossword and start
 using it. This manual gives a brief description of the process
 that you should follow to use XWord to help you solve the crossword.\par\pard
The first task is to set up a grid. Choose 'New' from the
 File Menu. Enter the size of the grid in the dialog box (you can
 use the sliders to change the values). The grid will then be shown 
 with all squares set to black. You now have to enter the layout of
 the white square. In the top left-hand corner is a red rectangle -
 this is the board cursor position. You can move it around
 the board with the cursor keys, or by clicking the mouse on a
 part of the grid. To mark a square as empty (white), put the
 cursor on it and type '?' (space will also do). To reset it 
 to black, put the cursor on it and enter ''. To enter a known 
 letter at a square, put the cursor on it and type the letter.\par\pard
As you enter square contents, the cursor moves automatically,
 generally following the direction you establish initially
 by pressing the right or down cursor keys. An exception is 
 when entering a letter, where the movement follows the direction
 of empty white squares.\par\pard
It is a good idea to set up the board with just '' and '?' before
 entering any letters. Boards generally have some symmetry - this
 is exploited by having some commands to flip and reflect the 
 grid in various ways. These are available from the 'Grid' menu.
 You can also set the default symmetry to use 'on the fly' as you
 enter the grid, from the 'Options' menu. As most crosswords are
 reflected and inverted about the center, it is a good idea to use
 this as the default symmetry (called 'reflect and flip' in the
 menu).\par\pard
After entering the grid, it is a good to idea to prevent accidental
 changes by 'locking' it (selected from the 'Grid' menu). You should
 then enter any letters that you already know. Once you have done
 that, you need to give XWord additional information about the clues
 that you still have to solve. This is described in the next section.\par\pard

\page
\page

${\footnote Giving XWord Additional Clue Information}
#{\footnote topic2}
+{\footnote browse00004}
K{\footnote {K} Giving XWord Additional Clue Information}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winxw.hlp', `Contents')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Giving XWord Additional Clue Information\par\pard}\par

XWord uses its dictionary to work out all possible solutions to the
 crossword. However, if there is anything wrong with the board layout
 constraints, the results will be unpredictable, and may include
 XWord concluding that the crossword has no solution at all.\par\pard
There are two ways these constraints can incorrect: you may have
 entered letters on the board that are wrong, or XWord is being led
 astray by the limitations of its dictionary. There is not much that 
 can be done about the former, but there is some hope in the latter
 case!\par\pard
Firstly, you need to mark any multi-word clues as being multiple words.
 You can do this using the mouse, as is described in the next section,
 or using the keyboard, which we describe here.\par\pard
Move on to the letters that start new words (other than the first
 word) and use one (or both) of the following keys:\par\pard
\fi0


\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b ^}   Mark square as start of a new down word (brown);

\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b >}   Mark square as start of a new across word (magenta)
\par\pard

The square will be displayed with a red line at the left edge
 and/or the top edge, indicating the start of the new word.
 It is a good idea to also mark squares which follow hyphens,
 as WordsWorth's dictionary does not include any hyphenated words.\par\pard
If you suspect that there are words that are not in the dictionary
 (such as proper nouns), you need to tell XWord to not consult
 the dictionary for that word. Move on to each letter of the word,
 and mark it with one of the following:\par\pard
\fi0


\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b |}   Don't limit current square to admissible down words

\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b -}   Don't limit current square to admissible across words

\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b +}   Don't limit current square by dictionary at all (a combination
 of the above two)\par\pard

These attributes will appear as horizontal and/or vertical 
 lines through the center of the square.\par\pard
XWord will automatically add such override attributes to any word
 in the grid that is longer than the longest word in the XWord
 dictionary (13 letters at the time of writing).\par\pard
\page
\page

${\footnote Using the Mouse to define the Grid}
#{\footnote topic3}
+{\footnote browse00005}
K{\footnote {K} Using the Mouse to define the Grid}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winxw.hlp', `Contents')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Using the Mouse to define the Grid\par\pard}\par

To set up the grid with the mouse, you can click on a square
 to select it (the cursor will move to the square). If the square
 is already selected, then clicking with the {\i right} mouse button
 will bring up a dialog box which will allow you to set the options
 for the square. \par\pard
You can also
 specify an allowed subset of letters that can be used for the
 square. This is useful in the case when you know that a clue 
 is an anagram of a certain set of letters, but you don't know 
 which anagram (you would presumably have done a dictionary 
 consultation to find the anagram, so this is most likely to
 occur when the consult failed to find the anagram, usualy
 because it is a proper noun). You can then at least tell XWord
 that it should only allow the known letters to be used for each
 square in that word (unfortunately you need to do this for
 each square in the word; on the other hand this gives a finer
 level of control). Actually, the new Anagram attribute mentioned 
 below makes this feature largely redundant, but it has been left 
 in in case it proves useful.\par\pard
Clicking on the selected square with with the {\i left} mouse button brings
 up a dialog box that lets you specify settings for a whole clue
 (down and/or across). You can specify the length of the word(s)
 down and/or across, and whether the dictionary should be overridden
 down and/or across. You can also specify multi-word clues by
 separating the word lengths with commas. For example, a clue whose
 answer consists of a two letter word followed by a three letter
 word should be entered as 2,3.\par\pard
Two additional attributes that can be set are the 'concept keys'
 for the word, and, if you know the word is an anagram of some 
 other word, you can enter that other word here too. Using these
 attributes slows down the computation of constraints by XWord
 quite considerably, but they can be extremely useful. For more
 information about concept keys, see Section .\par\pard
You can use any combination of mouse and keyboard actions when
 setting up the board. XWord will handle these consistently.
 The fastest way to set up a board is to use the left mouse button
 to enter all the clues which have squares in the top left quadrant
 (if the grid has two axes of symmetry) or in the top half of the
 grid (if the board has one axis of symmetry), save the result,
 use the Grid menu to complete the other three-quarters or half
 of the grid, and then enter any dictionary overrides and multi-word
 clue information in the rest of the grid, either with the keyboard 
 or the mouse.\par\pard
\page
\page

${\footnote Solving the Crossword}
#{\footnote topic4}
+{\footnote browse00006}
K{\footnote {K} Solving the Crossword}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winxw.hlp', `Contents')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Solving the Crossword\par\pard}\par

After entering the additional info, select {\f3 Enable Constraints}
from the {\f3 Solve} menu and then select {\f3 Compute Contraints} from that
 menu (or click on the white area surrounding the grid; this has the
 same effect). XWord will attempt to solve the crossword, or
 at least find the possible words that can be put in the grid, based
 on its dictionary, and the constraints you have entered on the grid.
 If you haven't filled in many letters yet, this may take a few minutes.\par\pard
You can then move the cursor around to squares for which you 
 do not know the letter (and which XWord didn't fill in when
 you asked it to solve the crossword).  As you move about, you
 will see two things changing. At the bottom of the screen XWord
 displays all characters that it believes can be entered in the
 current square. If the square is empty, on the right hand side
 of the screen you will see up to 8 down words and 8 across
 words that can go through the square. The total number of possible
 words across and down is also shown.\par\pard
As you move around, XWord works out all possible
 words that can go down and across through that square, and hence
 what letters can be placed on the square. When the board is nearly
 empty, the number of possible words shown on the right may be in
 the thousands. When it is a lot less than that, but still more than
 eight, you can view the entire list by selecting {\f3 View Across} or
{\f3 View Down} from the {\f3 Solve} menu.\par\pard
You now proceed by using the lists of possible words and letters that
 XWord displays, together with the crossword clues, to work out
 more letters. Every time you enter another letter XWord can
 narrow down the possibilities further. If XWord finds that a
 square can have only one possible letter, it will display the letter 
 in red, without actually committing the letter to the board permanently.
 Solving the crossword then becomes a collaborative process between 
 you and XWord. \par\pard
If the number of possible words is ever shown as zero, then you have
 a problem. Somewhere you have made an error in setting up the grid,
 or (often the case) there is a word that is not in the dictionary
 and for which you have not told XWord to override the
 dictionary (or you have specified concept key restrictions that are
 not matching the right word, or incorrect anagram restrictions).
 As a result, XWord has concluded that the crossword has no solution. 
 You will have to try to identify the problem and correct it (this can
 be tricky - a good approach is to move around the grid, discarding the
 constraints (from the 'Solve' menu) before each move, and look for
 places on the grid that still show zero possibilities - these are
 the potential problem areas).\par\pard
HOWEVER, THERE IS ONE CASE IN WHICH SEEING ZERO POSSIBILITIES IS OK!
 This is if the word in the crossword
 is longer than the longest word in the dictionary. If this is the case,
 XWord will automatically override the resulting artificial constraint 
 in any perpendicular cross words. You will notice this happening often
 in the demo version, where the dictionary is limited to words of six
 letters or less; any words of more than six letters will show up with
 zero choices, but the words that cross it will be unaffected.\par\pard
\page
\page

${\footnote The Menus}
#{\footnote topic5}
+{\footnote browse00007}
K{\footnote {K} The Menus}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winxw.hlp', `Contents')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 The Menus\par\pard}\par


{\uldb The File Menu}{\v topic6}\par\pard

{\uldb The Solver Menu}{\v topic7}\par\pard

{\uldb The Tool Menu}{\v topic8}\par\pard

{\uldb The Grid Menu}{\v topic9}\par\pard

{\uldb The Options Menu}{\v topic10}\par\pard
\page
\page

${\footnote Dictionary Consultations}
#{\footnote topic11}
+{\footnote browse00013}
K{\footnote {K} Dictionary Consultations}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winxw.hlp', `Contents')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Dictionary Consultations\par\pard}\par

The dialog box for dictionary consultations lets you generate lists 
 of anagrams and words, given a set of letters. The set of letters you
 specify can include blank tiles, as well as things like 'any vowel'
 or 'any non-vowel'.\par\pard
The method used is fairly complex but worth understanding if you
 want to make full use of it. Underlying each consultation are two
 pieces of information:\par\pard
\fi0


\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab a word template which specifies which letters are allowed in
 which positions in matching words;
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab a letter pool, which specifies which letters are available
 for use in unconstrained entries in the word template.\par\pard


{\uldb Some Examples}{\v topic12}\par\pard

{\uldb Consultation Match Types}{\v topic13}\par\pard

{\uldb Specifying Consultation Patterns}{\v topic14}\par\pard

{\uldb Special Pattern Characters}{\v topic15}\par\pard

{\uldb Letter Ranges}{\v topic16}\par\pard

{\uldb Consultation Processing}{\v topic17}\par\pard

{\uldb A Tip for Multi-Word Anagrams}{\v topic18}\par\pard

{\uldb Word Length and Count Constraints}{\v topic19}\par\pard
\page
\page

${\footnote Concept Keys}
#{\footnote topic20}
+{\footnote browse00022}
K{\footnote {K} Concept Keys}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winxw.hlp', `Contents')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Concept Keys\par\pard}\par


A new feature in version 2.0 is the use of 'concept keys'. In WordsWorth
 you can only use these when doing dictionary consultations; in XWord you can
 also associate concept keys with words in the crossword grid.\par\pard
Concept keys are essentially semantic categorisations of words, somewhat
 like a thesaurus. The file containing the keys is named "thes.dat" for
 this reason. This file contains semantic associations between nearly
 25,000 words. When you specify a concept key, the dictionary will be
 constrained to match only those words with possible semantic associations 
 to the key. These semantic associations can be quite loose, as they are
 based on transitive relations. That is, a word A is considered to be 
 potentially related to a concept key C if there is a word B such that 
 A and B are related in meaning, and so are B and C. Furthermore, the way
 that concept key restrictions are implemented in WordsWorth/XWord is not
 infallible - extra words can be admitted that are not actually related,
 although the actual number of erroneous matches should be a very small
 percentage. This fallibility is a tradeoff; the algorithm used sacrifices
 complete accuracy for speed. Concept key restrictions have a very low 
 impact on the performance of dictionary consultations (although somewhat
 more of an impact in XWord grids).\par\pard
You can specify more than one key, separated by commas. Keys must be
 single words. If more than one key is listed, the intersection is used,
 but you can change this to a union by starting the list with "+". If
 there are no words satisfying the concept key(s), they are ignored. 
 This is enforced more strongly in the XWord grid, where the word lengths
 are also used; i.e. if you specify concept keys for a six letter word
 in the grid, and there are no six letter words matching the keys, then
 the keys are ignored.\par\pard
To illustrate the use of concept keys, here is an example. Say you have
 a six-letter word for which the clue is "A swamp". You know that the
 second letter is "O". Then, either by entering it on the grid via the
 word settings dialog, or in dictionary consultations, you can specify
 the pattern ":O::::" and the concept key "swamp" to restrict the search.
 This will result in the following matches:\par\pard
{\f3\fs20       BOLDLY\par
      FOXILY\par
      MORASS\par
      NORMAL\par
      TOPPLE\par
}\pard
\line
If, on the other hand, you had specified the concept key "bog", then
 the following words would be matched:\par\pard
{\f3\fs20       COARSE\par
      COBWEB\par
      HOOKER\par
      HOOPLA\par
      LOTTED\par
      MODERN\par
      MOLDER\par
      MORASS\par
      MOTHER\par
      ROTTEN\par
      SOILED\par
      TOILET\par
}\pard
\line
The combination of the two ("swamp,bog") 
 gives the best results, namely the intersection of these
 two lists which is the single (correct) word "MORASS".\par\pard
The obvious place to use concept keys with XWord is when you have clues
 consisting of a single word. You can then enter that word as a concept
 key. It is sometimes a good idea to try a dictionary consultation with
 the concept key first - you may find that there are only a few matches,
 none of which is the word that you are looking for, in which case using
 the concept key in the grid would be a bad idea.\par\pard
\page
\page

${\footnote Crossword Save File Format}
#{\footnote topic21}
+{\footnote browse00023}
K{\footnote {K} Crossword Save File Format}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winxw.hlp', `Contents')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Crossword Save File Format\par\pard}\par

For those who are interested in such things, this section describes the
 format of saved crossword files used by XWord.\par\pard
The file begins with the dimensions of the board, and the basic grid layout.
 Here is an example:\par\pard
{\f3\fs20 13 13\par
\par
CHAFF#S.....E\par
A#.#OMAHA#.#R\par
N....#GENUINE\par
A#.#..O..#.#C\par
SANTA##TEAPOT\par
TA......#.#.#\par
AR..#.#.#...P\par
#O#.#...H...E\par
.N..K.##A...R\par
.#.#O.D.R#.#V\par
....A.O#ACCRA\par
.#.#L.V.R#.#D\par
RAMPAGE#ELOPE\par
}\pard
\line
Because we only have a
 single letter to represent each square, if a square contains
 a letter and a flag or more than one flag, not all of the information
 can be represented. However, in this case the board can be followed by
 additional lines of the form:\par\pard
{\f3\fs20 <row> <column> <`command' character>\par
}\pard
\line
or:\par\pard
{\f3\fs20 <row> <column> <`command character'><argument>\par
}\pard
\line
to specify this additional information. The full set of 
 command characters that can be used is:\par\pard
{\f3\fs20        	.       Empty square\par
       	?       Empty square\par
       	#       Black square\par
       	^       Start of new down word in multi-word clue\par
       	>       Start of new across word in multi-word clue\par
       	+       Do not restrict this square at all\par
       	|       Do not restrict this square in a downward direction\par
       	-       Do not restrict this square in an across direction\par
       	A-Z     Put this letter in the square\par
       	=       Concept keys across\par
        :       Concept keys down\par
       	&       Anagram across\par
        *       Anagram down\par
}\pard
\line
The last four are followed by a string argument containing the concept
 key list or anagram letters.\par\pard
Here is an example of such a file as saved by XWord:
      
\par\pard{\f3\fs20       15 15\par
      \par
      ; Created by XWord\par
\par
      #......#......#\par
      #.#.#.#.#.#.#.#\par
      ....#..........\par
      #.#.#.#.#.#.#.#\par
      ......#........\par
      #.###.#.#.#.#.#\par
      .........#....#\par
      ###.###.###.###\par
      #....#.........\par
      #.#.#.#.#.###.#\par
      ........#......\par
      #.#.#.#.#.#.#.#\par
      ..........#....\par
      #.#.#.#.#.#.#.#\par
      #......#......#\par
      \par
      \par
      2 11 >\par
      6 7 ^\par
      8 10 >\par
      8 12 >\par
      8 13 |\par
      9 13 |\par
      10 13 ^\par
      11 7 ^\par
      12 6 >\par
}\pard
\line
      
 Note that saved board files can have comment lines starting with 
 semicolons. However, these CANNOT appear before the board dimensions!\par\pard

\page
\page

${\footnote The File Menu}
#{\footnote topic6}
+{\footnote browse00008}
K{\footnote {K} The File Menu}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winxw.hlp', `topic5')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 The File Menu\par\pard}\par

The file menu in Xword mode lets you save and load your crosswords
 and grids, start new grids, print the grid to a printer, or quit XWord. \par\pard
\page

${\footnote The Solver Menu}
#{\footnote topic7}
+{\footnote browse00009}
K{\footnote {K} The Solver Menu}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winxw.hlp', `topic5')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 The Solver Menu\par\pard}\par

\fi0


\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Enable Constraints}   - Enabling constraints turns on XWord's
 word matching as you move about the grid. Usually you will not do
 this until you have finished entering the grid, as it serves no
 purpose at that stage. When constraints are enabled, moving around
 the grid with the keyboard is much slower.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Disable Constraints}   - If you have enabled constraints but 
 find that you need to move around the grid quickly with the keyboard
 for some reason, you can use this to disable constraint computation.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Compute Constraints}   - XWord will work out the current 
 constraints on the entire grid. The more empty squares on the grid,
 the longer this will take. Nontheless, it is usually acceptable to
 do this each time you solve a clue and enter it in the grid. A
 fast way to do this is to click on the white area surrounding the
 grid.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Discard Constraints}   - XWord discards the contraints it
 has worked out. XWord will do this automatically if you change 
 the grid in any way other than entering a letter, but just in case
 you can use this menu option to force a discard.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b View Across}   this pops up a window with a list of all the
 words that can pass through the current square in a horizontal
 direction.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b View Down}   this pops up a window with a list of all the
 words that can pass through the current square in a vertical
 direction.\par\pard

\page

${\footnote The Tool Menu}
#{\footnote topic8}
+{\footnote browse00010}
K{\footnote {K} The Tool Menu}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winxw.hlp', `topic5')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 The Tool Menu\par\pard}\par

\fi0


\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Consult Dictionary}   this is identical to dictionary
 consultations in WordsWorth. It is discussed further below.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Dump Dictionary}   allows you to dump the words in the current
 dictionary to a plain text file.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Build Dictionary}   allows you to convert a plain text file
 containing alphabetically sorted words, one per line, into the
 compressed format used by WordsWorth and XWord.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Interrupt Build}   allows you to interrupt a dictionary build;
 The build can be resumed later. The reason for allowing the build
 to be interrupted and resumed is that it can take several hours.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Resume Build}   allows you to resume an interrupted dictionary build.

\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Register}   allows you to register the program so that all
 features and dictionaries can be used.\par\pard

\page

${\footnote The Grid Menu}
#{\footnote topic9}
+{\footnote browse00011}
K{\footnote {K} The Grid Menu}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winxw.hlp', `topic5')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 The Grid Menu\par\pard}\par

\fi0


\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Flip Grid}   Mirror-reflect top half of board setup
 left-to-right;
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Reflect Horizontally}   Copy left half board setup to right
 half;
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Reflect Vertically}   Copy top half board setup to bottom half.

\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Set Grid Symmetry}   This lets you set the 'on-the-fly'
 symmetry to use while the grid is being entered. Initially
 the default symmetry (set from the 'Options' menu) is used;
 you can use this option to change to a symmetry other than
 the default;
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Lock/Unlock Grid}   Locking the grid prevents any further
 alteration of the basic black square/white square layout. 
 This is useful once you have entered the grid, to prevent it
 from being accidentally modified, which can happen quite 
 easily if you enter a word with automoving on, and the 
 current automove direction is not set correctly. Unlocking
 the grid will allow you to edit it again.
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Enable/Disable Automove}   This lets you turn cursor
 automoving on or off.\par\pard

\page

${\footnote The Options Menu}
#{\footnote topic10}
+{\footnote browse00012}
K{\footnote {K} The Options Menu}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winxw.hlp', `topic5')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 The Options Menu\par\pard}\par

\fi0


\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Configure Colours}   This lets you choose the colours 
 that XWord should use when drawing the grid;
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Configure Options}   This lets you set the default
 crossword size and symmetry, and select the dictionary
 file that should be used.\par\pard

\page

${\footnote Some Examples}
#{\footnote topic12}
+{\footnote browse00014}
K{\footnote {K} Some Examples}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winxw.hlp', `topic11')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Some Examples\par\pard}\par

A few examples can be used to illustrate the idea:\par\pard
\fi0


\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab for the literal word ROPE the word template is "ROPE" and the
 letter pool is empty;
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab for anagrams of ROPE the word template is unconstrained (we
 will write this as "####") and the
 letter pool consists of the letters R, O, P and E;
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b o}\tab for anagrams of ROPE that begin with R and have P in the third
 place the word template is "R#P#" and the letter pool is "O,E".
\par\pard

Given a word template and letter pool, WordsWorth tries to find
 matches by plugging different letters from the letter pool in
 to '#' positions in the word template.\par\pard
\page

${\footnote Consultation Match Types}
#{\footnote topic13}
+{\footnote browse00015}
K{\footnote {K} Consultation Match Types}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winxw.hlp', `topic11')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Consultation Match Types\par\pard}\par

In the consult dialog, the first choice you have is the type of 
 match to use. There are four possibilities:\par\pard
\fi0


\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Use all letters}   Matches must match the whole word template;

\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Match prefixes}   Matches may match any leading subsection of the word
 template;
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Match suffixes}   Matches may match any trailing subsection of the word
 template;
\par\par\tx360\tx800\li800\fi-800
\tab{\b Multi-word anagrams}   This is a special case. The whole word
 template must be matched but the match may consist of multiple words.\par\pard

The first and last case should be clear; the prefix and suffix
 matches can be illustrated by continuing with our last example.
 That is, we have word template "R#P#" and letter pool "O,E".
 Using prefix matching, WordsWorth would find words
 that match any of the following situations:\par\pard
{\f3\fs20       Word Template        Letter Pool\par
      ================================\par
             R                 OE\par
             R#                OE\par
             R#P               OE\par
             R#P#              OE\par
}\pard
\line
Using suffix matching, WordsWorth would instead use:\par\pard
{\f3\fs20       Word Template        Letter Pool\par
      ================================\par
             #                 OE\par
             P#                OE\par
             #P#               OE\par
             R#P#              OE\par
}\pard
\line
Thus in the first case, WordsWorth will see if any of the following
 are valid words:\par\pard
{\f3\fs20       R    RO   RE   ROP   REP   ROPE   REPO\par
}\pard
\line
In the suffix case, WordsWorth will check the following:\par\pard
{\f3\fs20       O    E    PO   PE    OPE   EPO    ROPE    REPO\par
}\pard
\line
Note that in the case that the word template is unconstrained (that
 is, all 's), then prefix and suffix matching are identical, both
 having the meaning "words consisting of one or more letters from...".
 Reread the last sentence if you didn't understand it.\par\pard
\page

${\footnote Specifying Consultation Patterns}
#{\footnote topic14}
+{\footnote browse00016}
K{\footnote {K} Specifying Consultation Patterns}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winxw.hlp', `topic11')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Specifying Consultation Patterns\par\pard}\par

When making consultations, you don't explicitly specify the
 word template and letter pool. Rather, you specify a single pattern.
 In the simplest case a pattern is a sequence of letters (whitespace
 may be present but is ignored). The letters may be either upper case
 or lower case, the former meaning that the letter must occur in that
 position (i.e. is a word template constraint), while lower case means
 the letter need not be in that position (i.e. it is in the letter
 pool). Thus our example above would be specified as "RoPe" (or
 equivalently as "RePo"). A few more examples should help here:\par\pard
{\f3\fs20       Pattern          Word Template    Letter Pool\par
      =============================================\par
      informatION      ########ION      informat\par
      MISinformed      MIS########      informed\par
      TreateD          T#####D          reate\par
}\pard
\line
The first two are typical examples of patterns that would be used
 for suffix and prefix matching, respectively. \par\pard
\page

${\footnote Special Pattern Characters}
#{\footnote topic15}
+{\footnote browse00017}
K{\footnote {K} Special Pattern Characters}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winxw.hlp', `topic11')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Special Pattern Characters\par\pard}\par

Patterns can also have some special characters. Each has an 'upper
 case' and a 'lower case' form, analagous to letters. The special
 characters are:\par\pard
{\f3\fs20       Meaning   Upper Case   Lower Case\par
      =================================\par
      Any letter      :         .\par
      Any vowel       *         +\par
      Any consonant   =         -\par
}\pard
\line
\page

${\footnote Letter Ranges}
#{\footnote topic16}
+{\footnote browse00018}
K{\footnote {K} Letter Ranges}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winxw.hlp', `topic11')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Letter Ranges\par\pard}\par

Patterns can also have 'letter ranges' enclosed in square brackets,
 such as '[A-Z]' (any letter), '[AEIOU]' (any one vowel) or '[A-MZ]' (any 
 one of A through M, or Z). To specify the opposite of a range, start
 the range with an exclamation mark or caret. For example, [!AEIOU] matches 
 any non-vowel. The letter case of the first letter in the range
 determines whether the range will be used as a word template
 constraint or as a letter pool entry; other than this letter case is
 ignored. Thus, for example, "[a-Z]" is legitimate and equivalent to
 "[a-z]". Similarly "[A-z]" is equivalent to "[A-Z]".
 You cannot use the other special characters within a
 range (thus for example, "[*y] is not valid).\par\pard
\page

${\footnote Consultation Processing}
#{\footnote topic17}
+{\footnote browse00019}
K{\footnote {K} Consultation Processing}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winxw.hlp', `topic11')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Consultation Processing\par\pard}\par

WordsWorth does dictionary consultations in the background, to
 give you the opportunity to interrupt, or to continue playing a
 game while a consultation is in process. You can interrupt a
 consultation by starting a new one, or by clicking on the 'Stop'
 button in the panel. The matches WordsWorth has found up to that 
 point will then be displayed.\par\pard
Depending on the consultation pattern, even a background
 consultation can slow the game up considerably. A percentage 
 progress indicator is displayed on the status bar to give
 you an idea of how far the consultation is. \par\pard
You can also perform a consulation in the foreground; in this
 case the program will block until the dictionary matching
 process is complete.\par\pard
\page

${\footnote A Tip for Multi-Word Anagrams}
#{\footnote topic18}
+{\footnote browse00020}
K{\footnote {K} A Tip for Multi-Word Anagrams}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winxw.hlp', `topic11')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 A Tip for Multi-Word Anagrams\par\pard}\par

Quite often there will be thousands of possible anagrams and it
 becomes impossible to search out the good ones. There is a
 technique to help in this case - look through some of the possibilities,
 and select a word you think is appropriate in the final anagram.
 Then subtract this word from the input, and see what words
 can be made from the remaining letters. For example, consider
 VEGETARIAN. We see that some anagrams have the word RAVE, and 
 decide to use this. This means we must find anagrams of the remaining
 letters, namely GETIAN. We find the word EATING. Thus 
 VEGETARIAN=EATING RAVE.\par\pard
\page

${\footnote Word Length and Count Constraints}
#{\footnote topic19}
+{\footnote browse00021}
K{\footnote {K} Word Length and Count Constraints}
!{\footnote EnableButton("Up");ChangeButtonBinding("Up", "JumpId(`winxw.hlp', `topic11')")}
\pard{\keepn\sa140\sb140\b\fs24 Word Length and Count Constraints\par\pard}\par

You can specify minimum and maximum word lengths for prefix,
 suffix and multi-word anagram matches. For the latter you can also
 specify the minimum and maximum number of words allowed per match.
 If these are set to zero (the default) they will have no effect.
 They can be useful when generating multi-word anagrams with patterns
 that contain several A's or I's, as WordsWorth will likely 
 churn out thousands of matches in these cases starting with the words 'A',
 'AA', and/or 'I'. Setting the minimum length to three (for example)
 can help prevent this.\par\pard

\page
\page

\page
}
